Document rationale behind javalib inclusion / exclusion (#4197)
scala-js/scala-js: JAVALIB.md

# Javalib documentation

## Very important notice about the Javalib

Scala.js contains a reimplementation of part of the JDK in Scala.js itself.

***To contribute to this code, it is strictly forbidden to even look at the
source code of the Oracle JDK or OpenJDK!***

This is for license considerations: these JDKs are under a GPL-based license,

> which is not compatible with our BSD 3-clause license.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which is not compatible with our Apache 2.0 license.
```
Might as well fix that now ;)

It is also recommended *not to look at any other JDK implementation* (such as
Apache Harmony), to minimize the chance of copyright debate.

## What goes into the core Scala.js javalib

Parts of the JDK are in Scala.js itself, parts are in separate projects
(see below for examples). This section aims to provide some guidance
on when an implementation should be included in the core repo as
opposed to a separate repo. The guidance is (unfortunately) imprecise
and the decision of the core maintainers applies in case of a

> dispute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
disagreement.
```
?

To determine whether a JDK API should be part of Scala.js itself,
traverse the following criteria in order until a decision is reached.

### Does Scala.js core itself depend on the API?

If yes, include it in core.

Examples:
- `java.nio.charset._`
- `java.io.DataOutputStream`

### Does the API need to be implemented in core Scala.js?

If yes, include it in core.

Examples:
- `java.nio.*Buffer` (for typedarray integration)
- `java.lang.Object`

### Does the core team have the expertise to maintain the API?

If no, put it in a separate repo.

Examples:
- `java.util.Locale` / `java.text._` (https://github.com/cquiroz/scala-java-locales)

### Is the core team willing to take the maintenance burden?

If no, put it in a separate repo.

Examples:

> - `java.time._` (https://github.com/cquiroz/scala-java-time,

Reviewer: I think this one can also go to the expertise section, TBH.

source code of the Oracle JDK or OpenJDK!***

This is for license considerations: these JDKs are under a GPL-based license,
which is not compatible with our Apache 2.0 license.

It is also recommended *not to look at any other JDK implementation* (such as
Apache Harmony), to minimize the chance of copyright debate.

## What goes into the core Scala.js javalib

Parts of the JDK are in Scala.js itself, parts are in separate projects
(see below for examples). This section aims to provide some guidance
on when an implementation should be included in the core repo as
opposed to a separate repo. The guidance is (unfortunately) imprecise
and the decision of the core maintainers applies in case of a
disagreement.

To determine whether a JDK API should be part of Scala.js itself,
traverse the following criteria in order until a decision is reached.

### Does Scala.js core itself depend on the API?

If yes, include it in core.

Examples:
- `java.nio.charset._`
- `java.io.DataOutputStream`

### Does the API need to be implemented in core Scala.js?

If yes, include it in core.

Examples:
- `java.nio.*Buffer` (for typedarray integration)
- `java.lang.Object`

> ### Can the API be implemented independent of the JS run-time?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Can the API be implemented independently of the JS runtime?
```
Run-time and runtime are two different things.

Does the implementation only rely on standardized ES 2015 or does it
require some browser/Node.js/etc.-specific support?

If no (i.e. it requires specific support), put it in a separate repo.

Examples:
- Removal of `javalib-ex` that depended on `jszip`.

### Does the core team have the expertise to maintain the API?

If no, put it in a separate repo.

Examples:
- `java.util.Locale` / `java.text._` (https://github.com/cquiroz/scala-java-locales)
- `java.time._` (https://github.com/cquiroz/scala-java-time,
  https://github.com/zoepepper/scalajs-jsjoda,
  https://github.com/scala-js/scala-js-java-time)

> 

Reviewer: Duplicate blank line.
